# Project Meeting Notes

All notes from meetings related to developing this project and the timeline of the project. Notes will be taken by Cole in this living document. Agendas are ideally sent out the night before a meeting, and notes/summaries of the meetings will be sent after the meeting either the day of or the next day by Cole.

## 02 June 2022

**Attendees:** Cole, Jacqueline, Shelby

**Agenda:**

1. Big picture group discussion about how to measure "success" for this project. Cole would find it helpful to have some agreed-upon ways that we want to consider this manual as successful or not to frame the development
2. Group to discuss the proposed outline (intro-outline.pdf - file earlier in this thread) and the proposed components of each section (section-components.pdf - file earlier in this thread). Cole to solicit feedback from Shelby and Jacqueline on the material in those documents and will note any required changes or items that will need re-thinking and note which of these require follow-up.
3. After discussing the outline, group to discuss evaluation procedure proposal (evaluation-proposal.pdf - attached here) and talk about options for evaluating success as discussed in item one. Cole will suggest options and group to brainstorm which of those are feasible/worth pursuing.
4. Group to discuss next steps and agree upon items for next two-week follow-up.
5. Cole to send group summary email following the meeting with action items and notes. 

**Meeting Notes**

Success metrics

* Turn it into an independent study project for an undergrad 
* If the resource is *optional* -- does it improve self-reported confidence 
* jacqueline mentions that students could be gotten from the education dept
* three things as a concern for ethics 
  * making sure you have the user consent
  * in a course-based project, you don't want the student to have a bribe or a risk of their mark -- we don't even look at the data until the grades are submitted etc, jacqueline doesn't even see it
  * anonymizing the data as quickly as possible 
  * as soon as we match the student numbers etc, we get rid of any identifying information 
* Cole wants to know if there are participation marks available to give to students 
  * Jacqueline says that there are ways we can give participation marks to the students 
* Could talk to Faizia about hosting this on the webpage (and maybe Ryan)
* The university has some sort of text analysis software that can help code quanlitative data
* Jacqueline says that they need to submit lab reports as RMarkdowns 
* Jacqueline suggests the way 
* **ask shelby to look for the name of the software that the comp sci folks are using to auto-grade code**
* a box re: base R vs Tidyverse - summarize in the box the things that are needed regarding the comparison between the two, and then rely on tidyverse at least at first 
* the most relevant second course could be eeb240 - this could be the first section beyond these introductory chapters that will go in eeb225
  * this will run first time in the winter session
* Regarding publishing about this project
  * one axis could be what we did, how we put it together etc
  * the other piece would be these quantitative assessments that we do through independent research projects for undergrads (theses) 
    * could be worth it following the exit surveys for a number of years and seeing if there's a change over like 4-5 years to see what kind of improvement there is in the experience of computational education 
* Shelby says she will email regarding adding this to the website
* We will meet to discuss getting a new student for summer stuff to set up the assessment 
* Cole to ask jacqueline for course materials 
* Jill Wheeler says that she would prefer doing 220 not 120 and probably for next year 
* 

